--- PAGE 1 ---
of the watermark with the different characteristics of each part of the cover image, in order to solve the problem 
of balancing the imperceptibility and robustness of digital watermarking, and to realize as much as possible 
the lower complexity of the algorithm, and to enhance the practicality of the algorithm. In watermarking 
schemes, the choice of embedding factor plays a vital role in balancing the imperceptibility and robustness of the 
watermark. Most of the schemes use a single fixed embedding factor which is applicable only for fixed images but 
if the input image is altered then it will not provide valid results. By calculating the embedding factor adaptively, 
it ensures that the watermark image is robust and non-adaptive embedding strength makes the watermark image 
fragile, so adaptive calculation is more beneficial to get better results10.
Wavelet transform based watermarking is difficult to resist geometric attacks11. The limitations of wavelet 
transform based watermarking algorithms are addressed by utilizing matrix decomposition to extract geometric 
features of an image. Therefore, wavelet transform and matrix decomposition methods are commonly used for 
watermarking images to avoid image manipulation and geometric attacks. Heisenberg Decomposition (HD) 
has lower complexity, which results in more accurate cover image components and improves the robustness of 
the embedded watermark. Many existing digital watermarking systems based on Singular Value Decomposition 
suffer from the False Positive Problem (FPP)12, which specifies the ability to extract non-embedded or illegal 
watermarks from cover images. A single transform cannot guarantee all the features of watermarking at the 
same time, so mixed domain watermarking is needed to fulfill these watermarking requirements. Watermarking 
performed in two or more transform domains is known as hybrid domain watermarking, which was developed 
mainly to improve robustness against image processing attacks13. In addition, the color space plays an important 
role in image watermarking. The YCbCr color space separates the luminance information (Y component) 
from the chrominance information (Cb and Cr components). Luminance information represents the lightness 
and darkness of the image, while chrominance information represents the color information of the image. 
Watermarks are more likely to be hidden in the luminance information of an image, and the separation allows 
for more targeted embedding of watermarks, reducing the impact on the overall quality of the image14.
Literature review
Kang et al.15 proposed a secure and robust watermarking scheme for color images, which uses Frobenius 
paradigm and majority voting in the DWT-SVD domain in order to create zero watermarks. Experimental 
results show that the scheme is less robust to geometric attacks. Pandey et al.16 proposed a stable, lossless, and 
reliable hybrid color watermarking technique called lifting method and GWO, which uses Arnold transform 
to scramble the watermark, improving security and robustness. However, compared with other color image 
watermarking schemes, this scheme has poorer robustness. Koley17 proposed a watermarking of color images in 
LWT domain using α-β mixing. The method embeds factors α and β according to the PC feature map by varying 
the diagonal information coefficients of the cover image. The experimental results show that the technique is less 
robust to JPEG compression attacks.
Zhang, L et al.18 proposed a two-stage encryption algorithm based on Invariant Integer Wavelet (IIW) by 
transforming the main image to frequency domain using Redistributed Invariant Integer Wavelet Transform 
(RIIWT) and calculating the singular values of the image matrix by using QR Decomposition and Singular 
Value Decomposition to hide the watermarks in the low and high frequencies of the cover image, which is 
a rotationally stable scheme with low computational cost. Pandey et al.19 proposed a non-blind color image 
watermarking scheme based on SWT and SVD, watermarking in YCbCr color space, embedding the watermark 
through different embedding factors, and the results show that the imperceptibility of the watermarked image 
decreases as the embedding factor increases. Vaidya P et al.20 proposed an adaptive color watermarking using 
multiple decomposition. To embed the watermark, the embedding factor is computed adaptively using the 
kurtosis and entropy of the color image. The experimental results show that this scheme is less imperceptible for 
color images. Roy et al.21 proposed a color image watermarking scheme based on DWT-SVD. The watermark 
is inserted into the Y component of the YCbCr color space. Experimental results show that the method is not 
robust to image processing attacks.
Abdulrahman et al.22 proposed a color image watermarking scheme based on DCT-DWT domain. After 
performing global DCT for each color component, one level of DWT is applied to the DCT coefficients of the 
color components. The result shows that the method is poorly robust to noise addition attacks. Prabha K et al.23 
proposed a watermarking method for color images based on Triangular Vertex Transform (TVT) and WHT. To 
obtain the U, V and W coefficients, the technique transforms the RGB image with TVT. Experimental results 
show that the scheme is less robust to histogram equalization and JPEG compression attacks.
Zhang et al.24 proposed a color image watermarking scheme using correlation of RGB color channels for 
copyright protection. The Tucker decomposition is utilized to generate the first feature of the image, which 
contains most of the energy of the image and the correlation between the three channels. The first feature of 
the image is then segmented into non-overlapping blocks, and the blocks are decomposed using singular value 
decomposition to embed the watermark in the left singular matrix. The results show that the robustness and 
imperceptibility of this scheme are poor. Al-maweri et al.25 proposed an adaptive digital image watermarking 
robust scheme based on DCT-DWT. Firstly, the image is converted to DCT and then wavelet transform is applied 
to the image, the algorithm selects the best embedding factor by self-training, but the algorithm is weakly robust 
to noise addition attacks.
Kang X et al.26 proposed a watermarking scheme based on DWT-DCT-SVD, which uses a two-level DWT 
transformation of the cover image to generate LH2 and HL2 sub-bands, and applies DCT to these sub-bands. 
The watermark image to be inserted is encrypted using chaotic logic mapping. And an optimized particle swarm 
optimization algorithm was proposed, which selects the most suitable DCT sub-band through multidimensional 
optimization and estimates the watermark embedding factor by considering the imperceptibility and robustness 
of the watermark scheme. This algorithm can better meet the watermark requirements, but its robustness 
Scientific Reports  |        (2024) 14:24735 2 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-76101-wwww.nature.com/scientificreports/
--- PAGE 2 ---
to some geometric attacks is not strong. Zhang H et al.27 proposed a hybrid domain watermarking scheme 
for QWT and QSVD. The watermark is embedded into the Y component of the YCbCr color space. For the 
security of the watermark, the watermark is encrypted with a 2D Chebyshev logistic map and then embedded. 
Experimental results show that the scheme is not robust. Wang et al.28 proposed a color image watermarking 
method using multilevel DWT-SVD and chaotic encryption. To embed the watermark, both the cover image 
and the watermarked image are converted to NTSC color space. Experimental results show that the scheme is 
less robust to image processing attacks.
Sourabh Sharma et al.29 proposed a new robust adaptive watermarking scheme, where the host image is 
decomposed into four subbands of the same dimensions by Redundant Discrete Wavelet Transform (RDWT), 
and then Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) is performed on the approximate subbands to obtain the principal 
components (PCs). Then adaptive multiscale factor optimized by artificial bee colony is used to insert the 
disrupted watermark directly into the principal components of the disrupted host image, which overcomes the 
trade-off between imperceptibility and robustness of the watermarked image. Meanwhile, the scheme overcomes 
the security problem of false positive error (FPE), which is common in existing watermarking schemes based 
on singular value decomposition. Sourabh Sharma et al.30 proposed a hybrid DCT-NNMF domain based 
color image watermarking. The scheme utilizes Multi-Objective Artificial Bee Colony (MOABC) to generate 
optimal multiple embedding factors to achieve the elimination of the imbalance between imperceptibility and 
robustness.To improve the security of the watermark, a key is created from the watermarked image, which is 
required to successfully extract the correct watermark.The experimental results show that the scheme has better 
visual quality and robustness. Sourabh Sharma et al.31 proposed an adaptive color image blind watermarking 
method based on boosted wavelet transform and discrete cosine transform, which balances the visual quality 
and robustness of the watermark by optimizing the algorithm of Artificial Bee Colony (ABC) to optimize the 
optimal embedding factor, and the experimental results show that the scheme has better imperceptibility and 
robustness to resist image processing and manipulation attacks.
Singh, O.P . et al.32 proposed an optimization based robust watermarking algorithm for color medical image 
copyright protection. The algorithm decomposes the host image using the enhanced wavelet transform (LWT), 
decomposes the transformed coefficients using the discrete cosine transform, and embeds multiple watermarks 
into the transformed host image using a hybrid optimization algorithm. The experimental results show that the 
algorithm has good invisibility, watermark payload, and robustness against image processing attacks. Priyanka et 
al.33 proposed a medical image data hiding method in the context of invisibility, robustness, security, and low time 
cost. Firstly, use a local binary pattern based on adjacent pixels to calculate the optimal value for embedding two 
markers. Secondly, the host medical images are labeled using enhanced wavelet transform, LU decomposition, 
singular value decomposition, and embedding factors. Finally, 3D chaos is used to encrypt the labeled image. 
The experimental results and performance analysis indicate that the proposed scheme has better robustness, 
imperceptibility, and security, and reduces the time cost compared to other traditional encryption techniques. 
Singh, Om Prakash et al.34 proposed a medical image watermarking scheme based on integer wavelet transform 
(IWT) and least significant bit (LSB). This technology first converts the cover image into three channels, and 
then uses IWT to convert each channel. With the help of LSB scheme, multiple markers are hidden in the overlay 
medium. At the same time, lossless soft methods are used to compress image labels before embedding, thereby 
reducing storage and transmission overhead and improving the embedding ability of labeled color images. The 
experimental results show that this scheme has good performance in terms of perceived quality, robustness, and 
capacity.
It is obvious from the literature review that the balance between perceptibility, robustness and embedding 
capacity is crucial in the field of image watermarking and the hybrid domain watermarking scheme helps to 
balance the imperceptibility and robustness of the watermarking algorithms, so in this paper we propose a color 
image watermarking scheme based on DWT-HD-SVD.
Motivation and contribution
In recent years, image watermarking technology has been widely used in the fields of information hiding as 
well as copyright protection, and mixed-domain watermarking has important advantages in improving the 
imperceptibility and robustness of watermarking algorithms. Both DWT and SVD are lossless transforms, which 
do not significantly degrade the quality of the image during the whole process of watermark embedding and 
extraction, and both Heisenberg decomposition and SVD have good stability, which can effectively improve 
the robustness of the watermarking algorithm in the face of attacks. One of the key issues in watermarking 
techniques based on singular value decomposition is FPP and when the image embedded in the watermark 
is attacked, the singular value of the image tends to become larger and it needs to be corrected appropriately. 
Therefore, in this paper, we propose a robust watermarking scheme based on DWT-HD-SVD that can resist 
various types of attacks such as noise attacks, filtering attacks, etc.
The innovation of this paper is to propose a robust watermarking scheme based on DWT-HD-SVD, which 
balances the robustness and imperceptibility of watermarking by adaptively computing the embedding factor 
using the entropy of the cover image in YCbCr color space. The main contributions of this work are:
 1.  This paper proposes a color image watermarking scheme based on DWT-HD-SVD, which calculates the 
embedding factor by the visual entropy and edge entropy of the image, and balances the imperceptibility and 
robustness of the watermark.
 2.  In order to solve the FPP problem and the problem that the singular value becomes large after the watermark 
is attacked, a singular value correction method is proposed to enhance the anti-attack ability of the algo -
rithm.
Scientific Reports  |        (2024) 14:24735 3 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-76101-wwww.nature.com/scientificreports/
--- PAGE 3 ---
 3.  Balance the imperceptibility and robustness of the watermarking scheme by improving the Alpha hybrid 
algorithm.
The experimental results show that the algorithm has better imperceptibility as well as larger embedding capacity 
than existing algorithms, exhibits excellent robustness in the face of common attacks, and strikes a good balance 
between robustness and imperceptibility.
The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2 describes some of the techniques used in this paper, 
Section 3 describes the watermarking scheme proposed in this paper, Section 4 shows the experimental results 
of this scheme, Section 5 summarizes the work of this paper.
Background
Logistic chaos mapping
Chaos occurs in systems with nonlinear processes that are sensitive to the starting and control points, and are 
random and unpredictable in chaotic orbits, and this security system is characterized by randomness, mixing, 
and reliability35. Therefore, the most common method is to use chaotic systems for encryption. In this paper, 
Logistic mapping is used to encrypt the watermark image thereby meeting the security requirements of the 
watermarking system. The essence of Logistic mapping is to change the correlation between neighboring pixel 
points in the original watermark image without changing the gray value and histogram of the original image. The 
equation for one-dimensional Logistic mapping is:
 xk+1=µxk(1−xk),(k=0,1,···n) (1)
where xk∈(0,1) is the kth value produced by the iteration and µ∈[0,4] is the parameter of the logistic mapping, 
and the resulting sequence satisfies the chaotic property only when 3.5699456 <µ≤4. Thus the generated 
chaotic sequence can be controlled by a reasonable choice of the initial value x0 and the parameter µ. Figure 1 
shows the encryption of a 256 ×256 grayscale image using Logistic chaotic mapping with x0=0.5 and µ=4.
As can be seen from Fig. 1, the histogram of the encrypted image has no similarity with the histogram of the 
original image, it looks like two different maps and the images before encryption and after decryption are the 
same, so it is said that the image encryption of Logistic chaotic mapping is reliable and effective to improve the 
security of the watermarking algorithm.
Discrete wavelet transform
Discrete Wavelet Transform is an important signal analysis method, which is often used for time-frequency 
analysis and processing of signals36. It is widely used in image processing due to its good multi decomposition 
capability, DWT can decompose the image layer by layer through filters, so it is called image microscope. Doing 
two-dimensional discrete wavelet transform on the image will get four sub-bands, LL, LH, HL, HH, and the vast 
majority of the energy of the original image is concentrated in the LL sub-band, which has strong anti-jamming 
and stability, while the horizontal low-frequency component and vertical high-frequency component (LH sub-
band), the horizontal high-frequency component and vertical low-frequency component (HL sub-band), and 
the horizontal and vertical high-frequency components (HH sub-bands) show the characteristics of the original 
Fig. 1 . Logistic encryption effect, ( d–f) are the histograms corresponding to ( a–c) respectively. 
Scientific Reports  |        (2024) 14:24735 4 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-76101-wwww.nature.com/scientificreports/
