--- PAGE 4 ---
image such as the edges, contours, and textural details, which are then more prone to be attacked; therefore, LL 
sub-bands, which retain the details, were chosen to be embedded in the watermark. A further decomposition of 
the LL sub-bands can be performed, called the secondary DWT decomposition. Figure 2 shows an example of 
discrete wavelet transform performed on an image.
Heisenberg decomposition
Heisenberg decomposition37 is a matrix decomposition method with low time complexity for square matrix 
decomposition. More accurate host image components can be obtained using Heisenberg decomposition to 
improve the robustness of embedded watermarked images. The HD decomposition of a matrix A is:
 A=PHPT (2)
where P is a unitary matrix and H is the upper Heisenberg matrix, if h(i, j) denotes the element of the H matrix, 
we have h(i, j)=0  when i>j+1 .
Singular value decomposition
Singular value decomposition is one of the very important matrix decomposition tools in the field of linear 
algebra, providing a method of diagonalizing matrices based on orthogonal equivalent transformations36. There 
exists a matrix A∈Rm×n that can represent an image and the matrix has dimensions m×n:
 U=[U1,U2,U3,···,Um] (3)
 V=[V1,V2,V3,···,Vn] (4)
Make it:
 UTAV=
σ1
σ2...
σm
=Σ (5)
where V∈Rm×n and U∈Rm×n, both of which are orthogonal matrices, and Σ∈Rm×n denotes a diagonal 
matrix whose values on the off-diagonal are all 0, and whose values on the diagonal are satisfied:
 σ1≥σ2···≥ σr≥σr+1=···=σm=0 (6)
where r denotes the rank of A whose size is the number of non-zero real numbers on the diagonal, and 
σi(i=1,2,···,m) is the singular value of the matrix.
Analyzed from the perspective of image processing, the singular values of the image matrix are correlated 
with the intrinsic features of the image and have a strong stability, so that when the image suffers from a small 
attack, its singular values do not change significantly. Moreover, the singular values of the image are invariant to 
geometric distortions (e.g. rotation, scaling, translation, etc.). Therefore, applying singular value decomposition 
to digital image watermarking can effectively improve the robustness of the algorithm.
Proposed watermarking technique
Singular value correction
The singular values of an image have good stability, and when a small perturbation is applied to the image, the 
singular values of the image are not greatly affected. However, there is no correspondence between the image 
and the singular values, so the singular values of different images can be the same, thus creating the problem of 
Fig. 2 . Example of Discrete Wavelet Transform: ( a) is the original image, ( b) is the image after first level 
wavelettransform, and ( c) is the image after second level wavelet transform. 
Scientific Reports  |        (2024) 14:24735 5 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-76101-wwww.nature.com/scientificreports/
--- PAGE 5 ---
false positives. And when attacking an image, the attacker may modify the pixel values of the image or introduce 
noise, which can cause the singular values of the image matrix to become larger. In order to solve the FPP as 
well as to reduce the singular values of the image and to reduce the sensitivity of the attacked image matrix, a 
correction factor β is added and a β power operation is performed on the singular value matrix S.
 A=USβVT,0<β< 1 (7)
After an image is attacked, the singular value obtained by the traditional singular value decomposition method 
fluctuates greatly, especially under geometric attacks. However, the stability of singular values determines the 
stability of watermark extraction. Therefore, its impact must be minimized before extracting the watermark. 
When the original image is attacked, a correction factor β is added to the singular value to eliminate the effect, 
and β takes the value of 0.95 in this paper.
Adaptive embedding factors
The watermark embedding factor is a trade-off problem that needs to be adjusted according to specific application 
requirements and image characteristics. In practical applications, several tests and adjustments may be required 
to find the most suitable embedding strength to achieve good watermark effect and image quality. Entropy is an 
index that describes the spatial correlation of neighboring pixels, and the visual entropy and edge entropy of the 
cover image38 are used to calculate the embedding factor of the scheme with the following equation:
 α=λ×1
1+e−(Ee/Ev) (8)
Where Ee is the edge entropy of the cover image, Ev is the visual entropy of the cover image and λ is the 
parameter to be adjusted. The visual entropy and edge entropy of the image are calculated as follows:
 Ev=−L/summationdisplay
pilogp i (9)
 Ee=L/summationdisplay
pie(1−pi) (10)
Where L is the maximum value of pixels desirable in the gray scale image, e is a natural constant and pi is the 
probability of pixel value i, i∈{1,2,···,L}.
Watermark embedding
In this article, the cover image used is a color image, while the watermark image is a grayscale image. To enhance 
the security of the watermark algorithm, we use Logistic chaotic mapping to encrypt the watermark image, 
generate a chaotic sequence through chaotic mapping, use it as a key, and XOR encrypt it with the watermark 
image. Subsequently, singular value decomposition operation is performed on the encrypted image. To enhance 
the imperceptibility of the watermarking algorithm, we convert the cover image to YCbCr color space and select 
the Y component of it for discrete wavelet decomposition. The YCbCr color space is chosen to improve the 
visual transparency of the watermarking algorithm, and the Y component is chosen because it is more robust 
in embedding the watermark compared to the Cb and Cr components. Next, we perform a discrete wavelet 
decomposition of the Y component and a Heisenberg decomposition of the resulting LL sub-band to obtain 
the upper matrix H. Subsequently, we perform a singular value decomposition of the H matrix. The embedding 
factor is calculated from the visual entropy and edge entropy of the cover image in order to perform Alpha 
blending technique to embed the watermark. The steps of watermark embedding are shown in Fig. 3.
Step 1: Read the grayscale watermark image and encrypt it with Logistic chaotic mapping with the encryption 
parameters x0=0.5 and µ=4;
 WE=Logistic(W I) (11)
Step 2: Using singular value decomposition, the image WE is decomposed into 3 matrices Uw , Sw and Vw;
 [Uw,Sw,Vw]=SVD (WE) (12)
Step 3: Read the color cover image and convert it to YCbCr color space, then select the Y component;
 [HY,HCb,HCr]=RGB 2Y CbCr (HRGB ) (13)
Step 4: Adaptive computation of embedding factor α. The embedding factor is computed by the visual entropy, 
edge entropy, and scaling factor of the cover image using Eq. ( 8);
Step 5: A one-level Haar wavelet decomposition of the Y component ( HY) of the cover image is performed to 
decompose it into four sub-bands, LL, HL, LH, and HH;
Scientific Reports  |        (2024) 14:24735 6 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-76101-wwww.nature.com/scientificreports/
--- PAGE 6 ---
 [LL, HL, LH, HH ]=DWT (HY) (14)
Step 6: Perform the Heisenberg matrix decomposition on the LL sub-band to obtain the upper matrix H;
 [P, H ]=hess (LL ) (15)
Step 7: Apply the singular value decomposition to the matrix H to obtain three matrices UH, SH and VH;
 [UH,SH,VH]=SV D (H) (16)
Step 8: The Sw obtained from the singular value decomposition in Step 3 and the SH obtained from the singular 
value decomposition in Step 7 are embedded by the Alpha blending method;
 S′
H=α×Sw+ (1−α)×SH (17)
Step 9: Reconstruct the matrix H using inverse singular value decomposition based on the matrices UH , S′
H 
and VH;
 H′=UH×S′
H×VT
H (18)
Step 10: Reconstruct the LL′ sub-band according to the matrices P and H′, using the inverse Heisenberg 
decomposition;
 LL′=P×H′×PT (19)
Step 11: According to the four sub-bands LL′, HL, LH, and HH, inverse discrete wavelet transform processing 
is performed to obtain the Y-channel image Y′ with embedded watermark;
 Y′=IDWT [LL′,HL ,L H,HH ] (20)
Step 12: Perform RGB reconstruction of the image to obtain the image H′
RGB after embedding the watermark.
Watermark extraction
In the watermark extraction process, the image embedded with the watermark is first converted to YCbCr color 
space, then discrete wavelet decomposition is applied to the Y component, and the LL sub-bands are selected 
for Heisenberg matrix decomposition to obtain the upper matrix H. The singular value decomposition of H is 
applied. On this basis, singular value decomposition is applied to obtain the singular value matrix and correct 
it, and the singular value matrix of the watermark is extracted by inverse Alpha mixing. Finally, the encrypted 
watermark image is obtained by inverse singular value decomposition and then the watermarked image is 
restored by the decryption process. The steps of watermark extraction are shown in Fig. 4.
Step 1: Read the color image with the embedded watermark and convert it to YCbCr color space, then select 
the Y component;
 [WM Y,WM Cb,WM Cr=RGB 2Y CbCr (WM RGB )]. (21)
Fig. 3 . Watermark embedding process. 
Scientific Reports  |        (2024) 14:24735 7 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-76101-wwww.nature.com/scientificreports/
--- PAGE 7 ---
Step 2: Select the Y component and perform one level Haar wavelet decomposition on it;
 [LLWM,HL WM,LH WM,HH WM ]=DWT (WM Y) (22)
Step 3: Perform the Heisenberg matrix decomposition on the LLWM sub-bands to obtain the upper matrix 
HWM;
 [PWM,HWM ]=hess (LL WM ) (23)
Step 4: Perform singular value decomposition of the upper matrix HWM into 3 matrices UWM, SWM and 
VWM;
 [UWM,SWM,VWM ]=SVD (HWM ) (24)
Step 5: Correct the singular values according to Eq. ( 7);
Step 6: The singular value matrix of the encrypted watermark can be obtained by the embedding factor α and 
the singular value matrix SH;
 S′
W=SWM−(1−α)×SH
α (25)
Step 7: Recover the encrypted watermark by performing inverse singular value decomposition of the matrices 
Uw, s′
w and Vw;
 W′
E=Uw×S′
W×VT
W (26)
Step 8: Decrypt the image using Logistic chaotic mapping and finally get the watermark image.
Experimental results and analysis
In this section, six color cover images of size 512 ×512 and one grayscale watermark of size 256 ×256 are used 
to verify the performance of the proposed scheme. Figure 5 shows the cover images and watermark images 
used in this paper. All image data used in this article are from the public dataset USC-SIPI: Signal and Image 
Processing Institute University of Southern California https://sipi.usc.edu/database/ . The experiments were 
performed in MATLAB (R2020b) environment on Intel(R) Core (TM) i5-12400F CPU 2.50 GHz, 16.0 GB RAM 
computer. Peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) and structural similarity (SSIM) metrics are used to measure the 
imperceptibility of the proposed scheme, while normalized correlation coefficient (NCC) and bit error rate 
(BER) metrics are used to measure the robustness of the proposed scheme. The embedding factor is calculated 
using Eq. ( 8) and in this paper the value of λ is taken as 0.04. The embedding factor for each cover image is 
shown in Table 1.
Imperceptibility
Imperceptibility refers to the ability of the embedded watermark to remain consistent with the original cover 
image, and the change in the image cannot be detected through the human eye. In this paper, the imperceptibility 
of the method is tested on six different cover images, PSNR and SSIM metrics to evaluate the imperceptibility of 
the proposed scheme. PSNR is used to show the perceived transparency of the watermarked image with respect 
to the original cover image and SSIM describes the contrast, luminance and structural attributes of the image 
and is used for similarity measurements, when the PSNR measurement is greater than 30 dB, it is considered 
to have an acceptable visual quality and similarity to the original image, watermarked images with SSIM close 
Fig. 4 . Watermark extraction process. 
Scientific Reports  |        (2024) 14:24735 8 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-76101-wwww.nature.com/scientificreports/
