--- PAGE 8 ---
Sensors 2023 ,23, 8195 9 of 23
Figure 4. The whole searching process.
3. Proposed Scheme
Robustness, imperceptibility, capacity, and computation complexity are the main
factors we should consider when we design a watermarking scheme. In order to obtain a
better robustness, we transform the image into the YCbCr color space and apply DWT to
obtain the more stable low frequency data. What is more, we divide the image into blocks
and repeatedly embed the same input watermark. As to the imperceptibility, we carefully
select the parameters in the scheme, including the DCT positions to be embedded and the
quantization value d. We also choose a proper size of blocks to make this scheme have
enough capacity. In addition, multiple processes are also applied to the extracting scheme
in order to reduce the computation complexity. Figures 5 and 6, respectively, display the
--- PAGE 9 ---
Sensors 2023 ,23, 8195 10 of 23
detailed embedding and extracting schemes, and the speciﬁc processes are described in
Section 3.1 and Section 3.2, respectively.
Figure 5. The process of embedding.
Figure 6. The process of extracting.
3.1. Watermarking Embedding Process
The watermark embedding process mainly includes two parts: information embed-
ding and template embedding, which are performed in the Cb and Y channels, respectively.
The information embedding process includes a two-order/two-dimensional DWT, block
partition, block DCT, and coefﬁcient quantization. The template watermark is a sequence
with 256 bits. And the template watermark embedding process is almost the same as the
information embedding process, except we replace the two-order DWT with a one-order
DWT for the reason that the lower level DWT can reduce the number of head searching
points so we can extract the watermark faster. The detailed embedding process is as follows:
Step 1: Color space transform. Firstly, we transform the original image Ifrom the
RGB color space into the YCbCr color space. Due to the fact that the human eye is more
sensitive to brightness compared to chromaticity, YCbCr is more in line with human visual
characteristics. In the watermarking algorithm, modifying the Y channel and Cb or Cr
channel is relatively independent.
Step 2: Template embedding.
Step 2.1: Take the Y component IYof the input image I; perform the one-order/two-
dimensional DWT on IYto obtain four subbands LLY,LHY,HLYandHHY.
Step 2.2: Divide the lower frequency subband LLYinto blocks LLiof size 88,
i=1, 2, . . .,L, where Lis the number of blocks. For each block LLi, we perform the
two-dimensional DCT to obtain LDCT blocks DCTLL iof size 88,i=1, 2, . . . , L.
Step 2.3: For each 88DCT block DCTLL i, embed two watermark bits using the quan-
tization method as mentioned in Section 2. As shown in Figure 2, we change 6 parameter
--- PAGE 10 ---
Sensors 2023 ,23, 8195 11 of 23
values for every DCT block. If the watermark bit is 0, Ddis deﬁned by Equation (4). If the
watermark bit is 1, Ddis deﬁned by Equation (5). Then, we embed the watermark bit by
changing the values of the block positions, as shown in Equation (7).
Step 2.4: The inverse DCT transform is applied to all DCT blocks to reconstruct new
LL blocks, and then they are combined together to obtain the new LL subband, and ﬁnally,
based on the new LL subband, together with the original LH, HL, and HH subbands, the
inverse DWT transform is applied to obtain the new watermarked Y component IYW.
Step 3: Information watermark embedding.
Step 3.1: Take the Cb component ICbof the input image I; perform the two-order/two-
dimensional DWT on IYto obtain seven subbands LL2Cb,LH2Cb,HL2Cb,HH2Cb,LH1Cb,HL1Cb
andHH1Cb.
Step 3.2: Divide the lower frequency subband LL2Cbinto blocks LL2 iof size 88,
i=1, 2, . . .,M, where Mis the number of blocks. For each block LL2 i, we perform the
two-dimensional DCT to obtain MDCT blocks DCTLL2 iof size 88,i=1, 2, . . . , M.
Step 3.3: For each 88DCT block DCTLL2 i, embed two head watermark bits using
the quantization method as mentioned in Section 2. As shown in Figure 2, we change
six parameter values for every DCT block. If the watermark bit is 0, Ddis deﬁned by
Equation (4). If the watermark bit is 1, Ddis deﬁned by Equation (5). Then, we embed the
watermark bit by changing the values of the block positions, as shown in Equation (7).
Step 3.4: The inverse DCT transform is applied to all DCT blocks to reconstruct new
LL2 blocks, and then they are combined together to obtain the new LL2 subband, and ﬁnally,
based on the new LL2 subband, together with the original LH1, HL1, HH1, LH2, HL2, and
HH2 subbands, the inverse DWT transform is applied to obtain the new watermarked Cb
component ICbW.
Step 4: Channel merging. Finally, we merge the new watermarked Y channel IYW, the
new watermarked Cb channel ICbW, and the unchanged Cr channel ICrinto a new image,
which is the ﬁnal watermarked image IW.
3.2. Watermarking Extraction Process
For the image to be extracted, ﬁrstly, we need to detect the scaling factor using the
pre-trained network described in Section 2. After re-scaling the image into the original size,
we transform the image into the YCbCr color space and use the Y channel to locate the
cutting position. Considering the computation complexity, we use four parallel processes
to search for the position with maximal MSE as the cutting position. Then, we cut the
image and extract the Cb channel to extract the watermark. The detailed extracting process
is described as follows:
Step 1: Scaling factor detection.
Step 1.1: We divide the suspect image Isusto be detected into blocks and input them
into the pre-trained scaling factor detection network. For each block, the network will
output a scaling factor.
Step 1.2: The ﬁnal scaling factor ais the one appearing most times over all blocks.
Step 1.3: Then, we rescale the image Isusby the reciprocal of aand convert it into the
image I0suswith the original size.
Step 2: Cutting position detection.
Step 2.1: Take the Y component I0
Yof the image I0sus; by ergodically searching I0
Yto
ﬁnd the position with maximal MSE, we obtain the cutting position. The detailed method
is given in Section 2.
Step 2.2: Cut the image I0susbased on this starting position to obtain the ﬁnal image
I0cutto be extracted.
Step 3: Watermark bits extraction.
Step 3.1: Take the Cb component I0
Cbof the input image I0cut; the watermark infor-
mation is extracted by the cut Cb component. We ﬁrstly perform the two-order/two-
dimensional DWT on it to obtain seven subbands, i.e., LL2, HL2, LH2, HH2, HL1, LH1,
--- PAGE 11 ---
Sensors 2023 ,23, 8195 12 of 23
and HH1, and then divide the low-frequency subband LL20
Cbinto 88blocks LL20
i,
i=1, 2, . . . , M, where Mis the number of blocks.
Step 3.2: DCT is performed on each block LL20
ito obtain the corresponding DCT block
DCTLL20
i. Then, we calculate the difference between DCT coefﬁcients and ﬁgure out its
belonging quantized interval with Equations (3) and (6).
Step 3.3: If the resulting kis even, the extracted watermark bit is 1; otherwise, if the
resulting kis odd, the extracted watermark bit is 0.
Step 4: Redundant judgment.
Step 4.1: After extracting the watermark from every block, we need to decide the ﬁnal
watermark. For every bit of the ﬁnal mark, if the number of 1s is larger than the number of
0s, then the ﬁnal bit is set to 1; otherwise, it will be set to 0.
Step 4.2: When the redundant judgment is completed, the ﬁnal watermark can
be extracted.
4. Experimental Results
Our experiments were realized on an Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-7400 CPU, from Intel
Corporation in Santa Clara, California, United States, with a Python framework. The
scaling factor detection network is trained on a machine equipped with NVIDIA GeForce
GTX 1080 Ti, from NVIDIA Corporation in Santa Clara, California, United States. The
quantization factor dis set to be 48.
The color images of size 512512 in Figure 7 are selected as the host images to
compare the performance of our watermarking scheme with others. To show the superi-
ority of our scaling factor detection network, we test the ability to detect scaling factors
on the datasets of RAISE [ 30], Boss [ 29], and Dresden [ 31]. What is more, we randomly
select 100 images each from these photo databases to test the scheme performance on
large color images which correspond to real-world situations. In order to show the supe-
riority of the proposed scheme, we also compare with nine existing schemes, including
seven transform-domain-based methods and two deep-learning-based methods. The seven
transform-domain-based methods are as follows: (1) Ernawan and Ariatmanto’s DWT-
DCT-based method [ 33]; (2) Wang et al.’s discrete Hartley-transform-based scheme [ 16],
which mainly uses the image geometric features such as sides and angles to correct the
attacked image; (3) Wang et al.’s robust periodic blind watermarking scheme [ 17] based
on sub-block mapping and block encryption to enhance robustness under combined at-
tack; (4) Kamili et al.’s two-channel method [ 6], which embeds robust and fragile water-
marks into Y and Cb channels, respectively; (5) Wang et al.’s [ 34] PDTDFB magnitude and
relative-phase-modeling-based method; (6) Yang et al.’s undecimated discrete wavelet-
transform-domain-based method [ 35]; and (7) Wang et al.’s polar-harmonic-transform-
based method [ 36]. The two deep-learning-based methods are: (1) Kumari et al.’s hybrid
watermarking scheme based on DWT and SVD in addition to a deep belief neural net-
work [25] and (2) Singh and Singh’s deep-learning-based watermarking algorithm [26].
4.1. Imperceptibility
The imperceptibility means people cannot distinguish the watermarked images from
the original ones, which can be measured by the peak signal-to-noise ratio ( PSNR ), and
structural similarity index metric ( SSIM ). The PSNR measures the similarity of the original
image and the watermarked one, while the SSIM measures the structural similarity index
between them. As for a color image, the PSNR can be deﬁned in Equation (9). If the PSNR
is larger than 30 dB, we assume that the imperceptibility is good.
PSNR =10log10(MAX2
I
MSE)
MSE =1
mnm 1
å
i=0n 1
å
j=0[I(i,j) K(i,j)]2(9)
