--- PAGE 1 ---
Sensors 2023 ,23, 8195 2 of 23
most popular ways in recent years. Discrete wavelet transform (DWT), discrete Fourier
transform (DFT), and discrete cosine transform (DCT) are the most widely and effectively
used frequency domains, and many recently proposed methods have combined them
together or improved them to obtain better performance. Kamili et al. [ 6] proposed a
dual-watermarking framework that embedded robust watermarks in the DCT domain and
obtained strong robustness against cropping and resizing attacks. It should be pointed out
that this dual-watermarking framework is designed for content authentication and tamper
localization for industrial images. The robust and fragile watermarks along with overhead
bits related to the cover image for tamper localization are embedded in different planes of
the cover image. The results obtained conﬁrmed that the scheme can stand ﬁrm against
different singular as well as hybrid attacks and acceptably trace the regions being tampered
as well. To achieve high robustness, many schemes make use of dual transforms. In [ 7],
a blind robust watermarking scheme has been proposed, which is a blend of DWT and
DCT. The watermark is ﬁrst scrambled using the Arnold transform and then embedded in
spread spectrum patterns with the help of pseudorandom series. The midfrequency DCT
coefﬁcients of the LL subband obtained after using DWT have been used for embedding.
However, the use of dual transformations results in high computational cost. In [ 8], Hu
and Hsu applied quantization index modulation (QIM) to DWT-DCT coefﬁcients in an
adaptive manner, where controlling parameters are designed to minimize the bit error
rates of extracted watermarks subject to a quality criterion. However, this scheme cannot
withstand desynchronization attacks. Because of the rapid development of watermarking
schemes, original frequency-domain-based methods are unable to solve complex problems,
and thus many new domains are deﬁned. Kang et al. [ 9] proposed a near-uniform log-polar
mapping (ULPM) domain to embed and extract watermarks, which showed robustness to
geometric distortions and general print/scan processes. It is robust against RSTC distortion,
general print/scan processes, and JPEG compression with low-quality factors simultane-
ously. However, this scheme has a low capacity. Liu et al. [ 10] proposed a method based on
a new transform called DTCWT to resist geometric attacks. This method is robust against
geometric attacks, such as cropping, rotation, scaling, shearing, and projective mapping.
However, this method has a relatively high computational complexity.
Cutting attacks can be seen everywhere in our daily life when someone needs to
highlight something or hide something. This type of attack will destroy the synchronization
of the watermark, thus causing the failure of the whole watermarking scheme. Many
schemes have been proposed to resist cutting attacks. The ﬁrst type of schemes for resisting
cutting operations embeds watermarks by uniformly distributing the information into
the whole image. Su et al. [ 11] spread the watermark into small blocks and used the QR
decomposition to embed each bit. This method focuses on embedding color watermark
images into color host images. However, the robustness to JPEGs with high compression
ratios, cropping of 50%, scaling of 1/4, median ﬁltering, and Gussian noise is not so good.
The second type of scheme embeds multiple copies of the watermark and uses redundant
judgment to obtain the ﬁnal watermark. The main problem of this kind of method is
that the cutting attack will make the watermarks inconsistent, and thus it is difﬁcult to
ﬁnd the correct beginning position. Hsu and Tu [ 12] proposed a dual-watermark scheme
where they embedded a fragile watermark and a robust watermark simultaneously. The
fragile watermark aims to locate the cutting position, and the robust watermark focuses on
the information that needs to be embedded. However, this method is only designed for
enhancing the robustness against cropping attacks and does not pay much attention to the
robustness against other attacks, including common image processing operations.
In addition to cutting attacks, scaling attacks are also a very common but harmful
attack in the watermarking ﬁeld. When people use images, they usually need to shrink these
images to save space or enlarge them to see more details. However, these operations will
destroy the synchronization of the watermark. Zheng et al. [ 13] solved the scaling problem
by using image normalization to transform regions into compact sizes that are scaling
invariant. This scheme shows good performance in terms of the robustness against rotation,
--- PAGE 2 ---
Sensors 2023 ,23, 8195 3 of 23
scaling, JPEG compression, and noise pollution. However, the capacity of this algorithm is
not high. Kang et al. [ 14] embedded an extra template in the DFT domain and obtained
the scaling factor by detecting this template. However, the robustness of the informative
watermark against median ﬁltering and random bending needs to be improved. Geometric
invariant domains, like ULPM [ 9], were also applied to host images to resist scaling attacks.
Another way to detect the scaling factor is based on image features. Bas et al. [ 15] proposed
a geometrically invariant watermarking scheme using feature points. They performed
Delaunay tessellation on the set of feature points and embedded the watermark in these
triangles. However, the robustness of this scheme depends on the capacity of the feature
point detector to preserve feature points after geometrical transformation, especially in
highly textured images. Wang et al. [ 16] proposed a blind watermarking algorithm for
dual-color images using discrete Hartley transform (DHT). It mainly used the image’s
geometric features, such as sides and angles, to correct the attacked image and embeded a
color watermark into a color image with large embedding capacity and strong practicability.
However, this algorithm is not robust to rotation of 90 °. Wang et al. [ 17] proposed a robust
periodic blind watermarking scheme based on sub-block mapping and block encryption to
enhance robustness under combined attack. The watermarked images were periodically
encoded to raise the fault tolerance rate, and sub-block mapping and block encryption were
also incorporated to enhance the security of copyright information and the visual quality of
watermarked images. However, this algorithm is not very good at resisting scaling attacks.
The above-mentioned methods, however, need to embed extra watermark information
or their geometric invariant ability is strongly related to the watermarking schemes. In
the ﬁeld of manipulation detection, resampling factor detection methods that can obtain
the scaling factor only by the traces of scaling operations are commonly used, and they
are suitable for watermark detection tasks. In 2005, Popescu and Farid [ 18] proposed a
method to detect the resampling factor by employing the expectation-maximization (EM)
algorithm. However, the major weakness of this approach is that it is only applicable to
uncompressed TIFF images and JPEG and GIF images with minimal compression. Because
of the large computation complexity and low speed, Kirchner [ 19] improved that work by
calculating the gradient of the p-map spectrum to replace the EM algorithm. However,
this modiﬁed detector is still vulnerable to recently presented geometric distortion attacks
against resampling detection. When scaling an image, the interpolation operation will leave
a peak in the DFT magnitude spectrum, so Gallagher [ 20] computed the second derivative
and employed DFT to detect scaling factors. However, the performance of the interpolation
detection algorithm decreases as the order of the interpolator increases. And sometimes the
DFT signal will fail to produce meaningful peaks for some cases. Energy features have also
been used; e.g., Feng et al. [ 21] proposed a method to extract the energy feature and train a
support vector machine (SVM) classiﬁer. However, the detection performance degrades
with decreasing JPEG quality factors.
The development of deep learning gives the scaling factor detection task more possi-
bilities. Luo et al. [ 22] proposed a method to train a dual-stream network that combines
the features of gray images and differences in spectrum. However, this method is unable
to detect the presence of resampling and estimate resampling parameters in the existence
of more complex operation chains. Bayar and Stamm [ 23] analyzed traditional ways and
found that most of them ﬁrstly obtained residuals by performing a ﬁlter and then subtract-
ing the original image. As a result, they proposed a new layer called the constrained layer,
which sums to zero and has  1 in the center, and put it as the ﬁrst layer to construct the
neural network. This method can perform general-purpose image manipulation detection;
however, it cannot estimate the manipulation parameters. Ding et al. [ 24] focused on the
energy feature and generated a measurable energy map toward the estimation of resam-
pling factors. This method is outstanding for estimating the resampling rate; however, the
problem of parameter estimation via deep learning for other image manipulations is still a
potential and inspiring topic.
--- PAGE 3 ---
Sensors 2023 ,23, 8195 4 of 23
In the past few years, many deep-learning-based watermarking schemes have been
proposed. The reason for using the neural network in watermarking is it enhances the
watermarking efﬁciency compared to other methods. In [ 25], a hybrid watermarking
scheme based on DWT and SVD in addition to a deep belief neural (DBN) network was
proposed. However, this method does not perform well for image processing attacks with
severe parameters. In [ 26], the learning ability of a deep learning network was utilized
to automatically learn and generalize the watermarking algorithms and train them in an
unsupervised manner to reduce human intervention. The employment of the embedding
and extractor networks ensures that the proposed scheme is imperceptible and protects the
mark image satisfactorily against attacks. However, the robustness to geometric attacks is
not so good, and the embedding capacity is high.
It should be pointed out that in the past few years, many watermarking schemes have
also emerged for copyright protection of deep learning networks. Recently, Fkirin et al. [ 27]
have provided a comprehensive survey on digital watermarking methods for protecting
deep neural networks. Unlike the work that focuses on using deep neural networks to
aid the digital image watermarking process, this is related to another ﬁeld, which uses
digital watermarking methods to protect the copyright of deep neural network models, e.g,
protecting the weights in deep neural networks. This is not our research topic.
Based on the above analysis, it is a hard but promising research task to design a robust
image watermarking scheme with high imperceptibility that enables resistance to cutting
and scaling attacks. To address this problem, this paper presents a robust digital image
watermarking scheme based on deep learning with resampling detection and periodic
head searching. This scheme can not only resist random cutting and scaling attacks, but
it can enable extraction of the watermark from an image that has been attacked by both
of these two attacks simultaneously. In addition, our proposed scheme also has high
imperceptibility, enough capacity, and security assurance. It should be pointed out that
our scheme is also based on the DWT-DCT domain, but the usage is different from the
original DWT-DCT-based schemes [ 7,8]. In our scheme, the watermark embedding process
mainly includes two parts: information embedding and template embedding, which are
performed in the Cb and Y channels respectively. The information embedding process
includes a two-order/two-dimensional DWT, block partition, block DCT, and coefﬁcient
quantization. And the template watermark embedding process is almost the same as the
information embedding process, except we replace the two-order DWT with a one-order
DWT for the reason that the lower level DWT can reduce the number of head searching
points so we can extract the watermark faster. The main contributions of our method are
as follows:
(1) We propose a watermarking method which can resist not only normal attacks but
mixture attacks, like scaling and random cutting. Our method resists scaling attacks
by using a scaling detection neural network, which is trained to focus on the detailed
traces of the scaled images. In order to obtain the cutting position, a template water-
mark is embedded in the Y component and the position is found by maximal MSE
searching.
(2) It is the ﬁrst time to apply the resampling factor detection neural network to the
watermark extraction area. Although deep learning has already been applied to
enhance the robustness of digital image watermarking schemes, the deep learning
schemes that accurately estimate the re-scaling factor are not effectively used in
digital watermarking. We successfully use this neural network in the digital image
watermarking ﬁeld.
(3) With the fact that most of the papers in the image watermarking ﬁeld test their
methods only on several images, we use a large number of images to ensure the
universality of our method. We test the ability to detect scaling factors on the datasets
of RAISE, Boss, and Dresden. What is more, we randomly select 100 images from
each of these photo databases to test the scheme performance on large color images
